>> Brown: PRESIDENT OBAMA
DECLARED THE U.S. IS AT
CROSSROADS IN THE WAR ON TERROR
AND CALLED FOR NEW GUIDELINES
AND ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE
PURSUIT OF TERRORISTS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, WE
EXCERPT THE PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN
POLICY ADDRESS AND GET REACTION
TO HIS PROPOSALS ABOUT THE USE
OF DRONES, THE GUANTANAMO BAY
PRISON AND MORE.
>> Brown: THEN, WE TURN TO AN
ATTACK AUTHORITIES IN BRITAIN
HAVE CALLED TERRORISM, THE
BRUTAL MURDER OF A SOLDIER IN
LONDON.
>> Woodruff: HARI SREENIVASAN
REPORTS ON THE ROAD TO RECOVERY
IN OKLAHOMA, AS THE TOWN OF
MOORE BURIED ITS FIRST VICTIM, A
NINE-YEAR-OLD GIRL AND TACKLED
THE MASSIVE CLEAN-UP AFTER
MONDAY'S TORNADO.
>> THE MASSIVE CLEANUP AFTER
>> WE GOT IN HERE AS QUICK AS WE
MONDAY'S TORNADO.
COULD, AND WHEN WE WERE IN HERE
>> WE GOT IN HERE AS QUICK AS WE
THERE WERE JACKHAMMERS GOING AND
COULD, AND WHEN WE WERE IN HERE
CUTTING TORCHES AND TRNGYI TO
THERE WERE JACKHAMMERS GOING AND
TAKE BITS AND PIECES AWAY AT A
CUTTING TORCHES AND TRNGYI TO
TIME.
>> Brown: IN THE SECOND IN OUR
SERIES ON IMMIGRATION REFORM,
RAY SUAREZ LOOKS AT THE DEBATE
OVER ALLOWING MORE HIGH-SKILLED
FOREIGNERS TO WORK IN THE U.S.
>> Woodruff: AND WITH SEXUAL
ASSAULTS IN THE MILITARY ON THE
RISE, KWAME HOLMAN EXPLORES WAYS
TO PREVENTND P AROSECUTE  THE
CRIMES.
>> WE ARE RAISING THE AWARENESS
LEVEL.
PEOPLE ARE NOW FAMILIAR WITH
WHAT THESE CRIMES ACTUALLY ARE.
ESPECIALLY THOSE CONTACT CRIMES
WHEN THEY WOULD NOT HAVE
CONSIDERED THAT SEXUAL ASSAULT A
LONG TIME AGO.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT USED
A WIDE-RANGING SPEECH TODAY TO
TRY TO REFRAME AMERICA'S
APPROACH TO FIGHTING TERRORISM.
IN SO DOING, HE TACKLED SOME OF
THE MOST CONTROVERSIAL ELEMENTS
OF HIS ADMINISTRATION'S NATIONAL
SECURITY POLICY.
>> FROM OUR USE OF DRONES TO THE
DETENTION OF TERRORIST SUSPECTS,
THE DECISIONS WE ARE MAKING WILL
DEFINE THE TYPE OF NATION AND
WORLD THAT WE LEAVE TO OUR
CHILDREN.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT AIMED
TO REDEFINE NOT JUST THE TACTICS
BUT THE OVERALL APPROACH TO
COUNTERING TERRORISTS, AT THE
NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY IN
WASHINGTON.
>> NEITHER I, NOR ANY PRESIDENT,
CAN PROMISE THE TOTAL DEFEAT OF
TERROR.
WHAT WE CAN DO-- WHAT WE MUST DO
IS DISMANTLE NETWORKS THAT POSE
A DIRECT DANGER, AND MAKE IT
LESS LIKELY FOR NEW GROUPS TO
GAIN A FOOTHOLD, ALL WHILE
MAINTAINING THE FREEDOMS AND
IDEALS THAT WE DEFEND.
BEYOND AFGHANISTAN, WE MUST
DEFINE OUR EFFORT NOT AS A
BOUNDLESS GLOBAL WAR ON TERROR,
BUT RATHER AS A SERIES OF
PERSISTENT, TARGETED EFFORTS TO
DISMANTLE SPECIFIC NETWORKS OF
VIOLENT EXTREMISTS THAT THREATEN
AMERICA.
>> Woodruff: PART OF NARROWING
THAT EFFORT IS CURTAILING THE
USE OF UNMANNED DRONE STRIKES.
THE ADMINISTRATION HAS RELIED
HEAVILY ON DRONES TO TAKE OUT
TERRORIST SUSPECTS IN PAKISTAN,
YEMEN AND SOMALIA, BUT IT FACES
MOUNTING CRITICISM.
JUST YESTERDAY, IN A LETTER TO
RAL ERIC
HOLDER OFFICIALLY ACKNOWLEDGED
DRONES HAVE KILLED FOUR AMERICAN
CITIZENS IN COUNTRIES THAT ARE
NOT WAR ZONES:
RADICAL MUSLIM CLERIC ANWAR AL-
AWLAKI, WHO WAS DIRECTLY
TARGETED IN YEMEN, AS WELL AS
HIS TEENAGE SON ABDULRAHMAN,
ALONG WITH SAMIR KHAN AND JUDE
KENAN MOHAMMED.
TODAY, THE PRESIDENT DEFENDED
THE USE OF DRONES, BUT HE
ACKNOWLEDGED THEY ARE NO CURE-
ALL AND OFTEN KILL THE INNOCENT.
>> IT IS A HARD FACT THAT U.S.
STRIKES HAVE RESULTED IN
CIVILIAN CASUALTIES, A RISK THAT
EXISTS EVERY WAR.
FOR THE FAMILIES OF THOSE
CIVILIANS, NO WORDS OR LEGAL
CONSTRUCT CAN JUSTIFY THEIR
LOSS.
FOR ME, AND THOSE IN MY CHAIN OF
COMMAND, THESE DEATHS WILL HAUNT
US AS LONG AS WE LIVE.
>> Woodruff: AHEAD OF THE
SPEECH, THE PRESIDENT SIGNED NEW
GUIDELINES THAT HIS AIDES SAID
WILL CURTAIL THE USE OF DRONES.
HE ALSO OUTLINED NEW PLANS TO
CLOSE THE PRISON FACILITY AT THE
GUANTANAMO NAVAL BASE.
HE INITIALLY MADE THAT PLEDGE
IN 2009, BUT HE'S ENCOUNTERED
STRONG RESISTANCE FROM CONGRESS,
AND OTHER COUNTRIES.
>> I KNOW THE POLITICS ARE HARD.
BUT HISTORY WILL CAST A HARSH
JUDGMENT ON THIS ASPECT OF OUR
FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM, AND
THOSE OF US WHO FAIL TO END IT.
>> Woodruff: ILLUSTRATING THE
EMOTIONS ON THAT ISSUE, A
PROTESTER REPEATEDLY INTERRUPTED
THE PRESIDENT AS HE ADDRESSED
GUANTANAMO.
>> OBVIOUSLY, I DO NOT AGREE
WITH MUCH OF WHAT SHE SAID AND
OBVIOUSLY SHE WASN'T LISTENING
TO ME IN MUCH OF WHAT I SAID,
BUT THESE ARE TOUGH ISSUES.
>> Woodruff: REPUBLICAN SENATORS
JOHN McCAIN AND LINDSEY GRAHAM
SAID TODAY THEY COULD SUPPORT
CLOSING GUANTANAMO, IF THEY SEE
A PLAN FOR DOING SO.
BUT THEY WARNED THE PRESIDENT'S
OVERALL DIRECTION ON TERROR
POLICY IS PROJECTING WEAKNESS TO
THE WORLD.
>> Brown: AND WE EXPLORE THE
PRESIDENT'S SPEECH NOW.
HAROLD KOH WORKED ON MANY OF
THESE ISSUES AS LEGAL ADVISOR TO
THE STATE DEPARTMENT UNDER
PRESIDENT OBAMA UNTIL JANUARY OF
THIS YEAR.
HE'S A PROFESSOR OF
INTERNATIONAL LAW AT YALE
UNIVERSITY.
PARDISS KEBRIAEI IS A SENIOR
STAFF ATTORNEY AT THE CENTER FOR
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS.
SHE AND HER GROUP HAVE LED LEGAL
CHALLENGES TO THE ADMINISTRATION
OVER BOTH DRONE STRIKES AND
GUANTANAMO.
AND DANIELLE PLETKA IS FORMER
STAFFER ON THE SENATE COMMITTEE
ON FOREIGN RELATIONS AND NOW THE
VICE PRESIDENT OF FOREIGN AND
DEFENSE POLICY STUDIES AT THE
AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE.
WELCOME ALL.
HAROLD KOH, A REFRAMING, A
REBALANCING OF HOW WE SEE AND
FIGHT TERRORISM.
IS THAT WHAT WE HEARD TODAY, AND
DID YOU THINK THE PRESIDENT GOT
IT RIGHT?
>> I THINK THERE WERE TWO
IMPORTANT THINGS.
THE FIRST WAS THAT HE MADE THE
SPEECH AT ALL.
THIS IS A TIME WHEN LOT OF OTHER
THINGS ARE GOING ON.
HE COULD HAVE AVOIDED IT.
HE NOT ONLY OWNED IT BUT HE
FRAMED IT AND EXPLAINED THE
STRATEGY.
HE NARROWED THE WAR ON TERROR TO
WHAT WE'RE REALLY TRYING TO DO
WHICH IS TO DEFEAT AL QAEDA, THE
TALIBAN, AND ASSOCIATED FORCES.
AND HE DEFINED THE ROLE OF
GUANTANAMO AND DRONES WITHIN
THAT AS A TOOL.
AND HE SAID BOTH OF THEM NEED TO
BE DISCIPLINED, THAT DRONES NEED
TO BE SUBJECT TO CLEARER
STANDARD RULES AND MORE
TRANSPARENT AND GUANTANAMO NEEDS
TO BE CLOSED.
I THINK HE DID A VERY GOOD JOB
REPOSITIONING THE POLICY BACK TO
HIS VALUES.
>> Brown: PARDISS KEBRIAEI, I
PICK UP FIRST ON THE DRONE ISSUE
BECAUSE THAT WAS PUT IN THIS
LARGER CONTEXT.
THE PRESIDENT TALKED OF BEING
MORE TRANSPLANT, BUT HE ALSO
MADE PERHAPS HIS STRONGEST CASE
FOR THEIR USE.
WHAT'S YOUR RESPONSE?
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT IT WAS
IMPORTANT.
HIS DESCRIPTION OF A FUTURE
WHERE THE UNITED STATES RESPONDS
TO TERRORISM THE WAY VIRTUALLY
EVERY OTHER COUNTRY IN THE WORLD
DOES, WHICH IS THROUGH THEIR
ORDINARY DOMESTIC LAWS AND
ORDINARY INTERNATIONAL LAWS WAS
IMPORTANT AND WHERE THE LAWS OF
WAR, THE USE OF MILITARY FORCE
UNDER THE LAWS OF WAR IS THE
EXCEPTION AND NOT THE RULE.
BUT THAT WAS IN THE FUTURE.
AND AS FOR TODAY AND FOR AN
INDETERMININDETERMINATE POINT MG
FORWARD I HEARD A REASSERTION OF
A VERY FLAWED PREMISE THAT
SUPPORTS THE TARGETING KILLING
PROGRAM WHICH IS OF GLOBAL WAR.
HE SAID WE ARE STILL 12 YEARS
AFTER THE FACT AT WAR WITH
AL QAEDA AND UNDEFINED, UNKNOWN
ASSOCIATED FORCES, AND I THINK
THAT SEEMED TO BE VERY MUCH A
CONTINUATION OF THE PRO,MS THATN
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE DEAD.
YES, THERE WERE-- THERE WAS AN
OUTLINE OF NARROWER STANDARDS
FOR TARGETING INDIVIDUALS.
THAT WAS IMPORTANT.
ITY ARE MAINS TO BE SEEN HOW THE
STANDARDS ARE INTERPRETED.
HE REFERENCED IMMINENCE AND
INFEESIBILITY OF CAPTURE.
I DON'T KNOW IS THAT PRIOR
INTERPRETATIONS THAT I'VE SEEN
BY THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
IMMINENCE FOR EXAMPLE,
NECESSARILY ENGENDERS A GREAT
DEAL OF CONFIDENCE ABOUT HOW
THOSE STANDARDS WILL BE
INTERPRETED.
I THINK THE FUNDAMENTAL PREMISE
OF THE PROGRAM REMAINS.
>> Brown: DANIELLE PLETKA,
COMING AT IT FROM A DIFFERENT
SIDE OF THINGS.
FIRST, PICKING UP ON THE DRONE
ISSUE, WHAT DID YOU HEAR?
>> I HEARD THE PRESIDENT DIRECT
AN ISSUE YESTERDAY OF A
DIFFERENT USE DRONES GOING INTO
THE FUTURE.
I DON'T BELIEVE ANY OF US HAVE
SEEN IT, SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE SPECIFICS ARE, WHAT THE
PRESIDENT SUGGESTED WAS THAT
THEY WILL NOT BE USING DRONES IN
THE FUTURE IF THEY CANNOT
GUARANTEE THAT THERE ARE NO
CIVILIAN DEATHS.
IF THAT IS ACCURATE, I DON'T
THINK THAT THAT'S A MEETABLE
STANDARD.
>> Brown: YOU THINK HE'S
CRIMPING HIMSELF TOO MUCH.
>> WELL, PERHAPS THAT'S HIS
INTENTION.
I DON'T-- I DON'T THINK IT'S A
MEETABLE STANDARD.
OBVIOUSLY, I THINK THAT UP UNTIL
NOW, THE PRESIDENT HAS MADE
EVERY EFFORT AS ANY PRESIDENT
WOULD TO ENSURE THAT CIVILIANS
AREN'T KILLED WHEN WE NEED TO
TARGET AND ATTACK TERRORISTS.
ON THE OTHER HAND, PEOPLE FIND
THEMSELVESES IN BAD PLACES ALL
THE TIME AND THESE ARE THE
CONSEQUENCES OF WAR.
BUT THE IMPORTANT THING TO
UNDERSTAND-- AND I THINK THIS IS
REALLY WHAT DIDN'T COME THROUGH
IN THE SPEECH-- IS THAT THE
PRESIDENT SEEMED TO IMPLY THAT
WE SOMEHOW HAVE CHOSEN WAR, AND
THAT WE CAN CHOOSE TO END A WAR.
AND THE REALITY IS THAT WAR
CHOOSES US.
THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED ON
SEPTEMBER 11.
AND THIS WAR WILL END WHEN WE
HAVE DEFEATED THESE GROUPS.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT WE HAVEN'T
DEFEATED THEM.
RATHER, THEY'VE EXPANDED RATHER
DRAMATICALLY OVER THE LAST FEW
YEARS TO COUNTRY WHERE'S THEY
WERE NOT OPERATING BEFORE.
>> Brown: HAROLD KOH, YOU
HEARD BOTH CRITICISMS FROM TWO
DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS HERE.
>> I THINK BOTH ARE MISSING THE
FOREST FOR THE TREES.
THE QUESTION IS, OBVIOUSLY,
SOMETHING EXTRAORDINARY HAPPENED
ON SEPTEMBER 11, AND FOR 12
YEARS, AN EXTRAORDINARY PARADIGM
WAS USED TO COMBAT THAT.
THE QUESTION THE PRESIDENT WAS
ASKING TODAY IS, IS THERE AN
EXIT STRATEGY OR IS IT PERPETUAL
AND BOUNDLESS?
AND HE SAID I'M CHOOSING EXIT
STRATEGY.
AND HE SAID IT'S GOING TO BE
NARROWER.
THE APPROACH THAT'S GOING TO BE
SUSTAINABLE GOING FORWARD IS
GOING TO COMBINE SOME ELEMENTS,
LIKE FORCE, BUT WITH MANY OTHER
TOOLS THAT HAVE DEVELOPED
BECAUSE THE NATURE OF THE THREAT
HAS ITSELF CHANGED.
SO HE WILL USE LAW ENFORCEMENT,
HE WILL USE CIVILIAN COURT.
HE WILL USE MILITARY COURTS IF
NECESSARY.
BUT HE WILL FIX THOSE PIECES OF
IT IT IT THAT HE THINKS HAVE
GONE IN THE WRONG DIRECTION.
HE THINKS GUANTANAMO IS A
MISTAKE AND THINKS DRONES NEED
TO BE DISCIPLINED, AND THAT'S
BRINGING THIS INTO A ZONE OF A
WAR THAT CAN BE ENDED AND NOT A
WAR THAT WILL CONTINUE FOREVER.
THAT IS A VERY, VERY SIGNIFICANT
ANNOUNCEMENT.
>> Brown: PARDISS KEBRIAEI, I
PICK UP ON THAT, PARTICULARLY
VIS-A-VIS GUANTANAMO.
>> WELL, JUST WITH RESPECT TO
THE WAR ISSUE, THE WAR PARADIGM,
I MEAN, I THINK A POINT GIVEN OF
DISAGREEMENT IS ABOUT WHETHER
THE USE OF FORCE UNDER THE LAWS
OF WAR OR CHOOSING TO RESPOND
UNDER LAW ENFORCEMENT IS A
MATTER OF A POLICY PREFERENCE.
I THINK THERE ARE MANY OF US WHO
BELIEVE THAT'S A MATTER OF LAW
AND FACT.
THE ADMINISTRATION CANNOT SIMPLY
ASSERT THAT WE ARE IN WAR.
IT DEPENDS ON OBJECTIVE CRITERIA
UNDER THE LAW AND IT DEPENDS
WHETHER THE FACTS MEANTIME THE
CRITERIA.
THAT'S A BASIC POINT OF
DISAGREEMENT.
>> Brown: LET ME STOP YOU
THERE IF I COULD BEFORE YOU GET
TO GUANTANAMO.
DANIELLE PLETKA, IF YOU COULD
PICK UP ON THAT BECAUSE THAT IS
ADDRESSING YOUR QUESTION WHEN
ARE WE AT WAR AND HOW DO WE
DECIDE?
>> IT'S AN INTERESTING QUESTION.
HONESTLY, IT'S NOT ONE THAT
SHOULD BE DIRECTED AT ME.
YOU'RE THE FORMER LEGAL ADVISER
AT THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
THE PRESIDENT IS IN FACT
OPERATING UNDER THE AUTHORITIES
GRANTED TO HIM BY CONGRESS.
AND THOSE ASSUME THAT WE ARE AT
WAR.
ARE WE NOT?
>> HE SAID THAT CONGRESS HAD
DECLARED WAR AGAINST A VERY
NARROW GROUP ON SEPTEMBER 2001,
AL QAEDA THE TALIBAN, AND
ASSOCIATED FORCES.
AND HE SAID HE WANTS THAT WAR TO
END.
AND THAT AT THE VERY END OF THE
SPEECH, WHICH IS FAR AND AWAY
THE MOST IMPORTANT PART, HE SAID
BECAUSE THE STATE OF PERPETUAL
WAR DISTORTS FREEDOM, HE WANTS
IT TO END.
AND, THEREFORE, HIS FOCUS WILL
BE ON NOT SIGNING A NEW
A.M.U.F., AND REFUSING TO EXPAND
ITS MANDATE.
SO THE QUESTION IS, AGAIN, EXIT
STRATEGY VERSUS PERPETUAL WAR.
AND HE SAID I'M CHOOSING EXIT
STRATEGY.
WE'RE NOT DONE BUT WE WILL BE
DONE AND WE'RE SHIFTING TO A
MORE NORMAL PARADIGM FOR DEALING
WITH THESE PROBLEMS.
>> Brown: DO YOU WANT TO PICK
UP ON THAT GEE WE'RE HAVING THIS
STRANGE CLINICAL DISCUSSION
MR. BWHETHER WE'RE AT WAR.
I THINK THAT THE SINE QUA NON OF
MOST CONFLICTS IS THAT THERE IS
AN ENEMY AND THAT ENEMY STILL
SEEKS TO FIGHT YOU AND THAT
ENEMY STILL SEEKS TO DESTROY
YOU, AND THAT ENEMY CONTINUES TO
ATTACK YOU.
WE SAW THAT IN BOSTON.
WE SAW THAT IN BENGHAZI.
WE SEE IT IN AFGHANISTAN AND
PAKISTAN.
WE SEE IT IN YEMEN.
WE SEE IT IN LOTS OF PLACES I
COULD CONTINUE LISTING.
THE NOTION THAT THIS IS SOMEHOW
A RHETORICAL EXERCISE-- DID
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT COME OUT AND
SAY, "WE NEED TO END THIS WAR
WITH GERMANY," OR DID HE WANT US
TO WIN THIS WAR.
DID PRESIDENT REAGAN SAY WE NEED
TO END THIS COLD WAR BECAUSE I'M
SICKAVE PERPETUAL WAR?
I DON'T UNDERSTAND THAT.
>> LET ME BRING PARDIS BACK IN
GO AHEAD.
>> I THINK WHAT THE UNITED
STATES IS DEALING WITH IS
TERRORISM, ACTS OF TERRORISM.
THERE ARE ALLIES OF THE UNITED
STATES, MOST COUNTRIES IN THE
WORLD THAT HAVE DEALT WITH
TERRORISM, ON MASS ACTS OF
VIOLENCE OF TERRORIST VIOLENCE
ON THEIR OWN SOIL BEFORE 9/11
AND AFTER 9/11.
AND THE WAY THAT, THA THAT COUNS
TYPICALLY DEAL WITH THOSE
THREATS IS THROUGH ORDINARY
LAWS.
THE LAWS OF WAR AND ARMED
CONFLICTS ARE EXCEPTIONS, AND
THAT EXCEPTION HAS NOW SWALLOWED
THE RULE.
WE HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT A WAR
PARADIGM FOR 12 YEARS.
AND IT'S, AGAIN, THOUGH A MATTER
OF OBJECTIVE CRITERIA UNDER
INTERNAL LAW THAT DETERMINED
WHETHER WE'RE IN ARMED CONFLICT.
IT HAS TO DO WITH THE NATURE OF
THE GROUPS, AND THE INTENSITY OF
FIGHTING.
IT IS NOT SIMPLY A POLITICAL
DETERMINATION.
>> Brown: HAROLD KOH?
>> I DON'T THINK EITHER OF THE
PREVIOUS SPEAKERS READ THE
SPEECH THAT CLOSELY.
WHAT HE SAID, QUITE FRANKLY, WAS
THERE IS A PARTICULAR ENEMY
AGAINST WHOM WE DECLARED WAR IN
SEPTEMBER 2001, AL QAEDA, THE
TALIBAN AND ASSOCIATED FORCES.
WE ARE FIGHTING THEM AND OUR
GOAL IS TO DEFEAT THEM.
THERE ARE OTHER PEOPLE WHO ARE
COMING ALONG WHO ARE DANGEROUS
ALSO SELF-RADICALIZERS, PEOPLE
INVOLVED IN BENGHAZI.
AND HE SAID WE'RE NOT AT WAR
WITH THEM.
WE CAN DEAL WITH THEM THROUGH
TRADITIONAL TOOLS.
SO THE CHALLENGE IS, NUMBER ONE,
HOW TO END THE FIRST WAR, THE
ONE WHICH WE HAVE DECLARED, AND
SECONDLY, HOW TO NOT EXTEND THAT
WAR PARADIGM TO EVERYBODY WHO
COMES ALONG.
HE DESCRIBES THE WAY IN WHICH
COUNTER-TERRORISM AGAINST OTHER
NEW FOES IS MUCH MORE LIKE IT
WAS BEFORE 9/11.
HE'S TALKING ABOUT ENDING THE
ABERRATIONAL PARADIGM AND
SHIFTING TO A SUSTAINABLE
RESPONSE THAT INCLUDES THINGS
LIKE LAW ENFORCEMENT TOOLS AND
DOES NOT INCLUDE THINGS LIKE
GUANTANAMO.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, ALL OF
THIS TO BE CONTINUED, I PROMISE.
HAROLD KOH, DANIELLE PLETKA,
PARDISS KEBRIAEI, THANK YOU ALL
ERYV MUCH.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE "NEWSHOUR": THE GRUESOME
MURDER OF A SOLDIER IN LONDON; A
DAY OF MOURNING IN OKLAHOMA;
VISAS FOR FOREIGN-BORN HIGH TECH
WORKERS AND EFFORTS TO CURB
SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE MILITARY.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: THE U.S. HOUSE
>> THE I.R.S. ANNOUNCED TODAY IT
HAS REPLACED LOIS LERNER THE
OFFICIAL IN CHARGE OF THE AGENTS
WHO DID THE TARGETING.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTED
SHE HAS BEEN PLACED ON
ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE.
LERNER HAS INSISTED SHE DID
NOTHING WRONG.
YESTERDAY SHE REFUSED TO ANSWER
A HOUSE COMMITTEE'S QUESTIONS,
CITING HER RIGHT AGAINST
SELF-INCRIMINATION.
THE U.S. HOUSE VOTED TODAY TO
PEG FEDERAL STUDENT LOAN RATES
TO THOSE SET BY FINANCIAL
MARKETS.
REPUBLICANS SAID IT WILL
FORESTALL A DOUBLING OF THE
CURRENT RATES-- SET TO TAKE
EFFECT ON JULY FIRST-- AND
DIVORCE THE ISSUE FROM POLITICS.
DEMOCRATS WARNED THE MOVE TO
VARIABLE RATE LOANS COULD LEAD
TO HIGHER COSTS IN COMING YEARS,
IF MARKET RATES RISE.
>> WE WANT TO HELP STUDENTS.
WE WANT TO GIVE THEM CERTAINTY,
AND WE WANT THEM NOT TO REPLY
LYE ON THE WHIMS OF POLITICIANS
HERE, AND WE WANT ALO NSOT TO
PUT A BURDEN ON THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE AND THE TAXPAYER, NOT
ADD, NOT ADD TO THAT.
>> THIS BILL WILL HURT YOUNG
PEOPLE AND MIDDLE CLASS FAMILIES
WHO ARE ALREADY STRUGGLING WITH
CRUSHING STUDENT LONE DEBT.
THE IDEA THAT AS A COUNTRY WE
MAKE MONEY ON THE PURSUIT BY
YOUNG PEOPLE OF THEIR EDUCATION
IS PLAIN WRONG.
>> Sreenivasan: DEMOCRATS WANT
TO KEEP THE SUBSIDIZED RATES AT
3.4% FOR ANOTHER TWO YEARS AT A
COST OF $9 BILLION.
THE HOUSE BILL IS GIVEN LITTLE
CHANCE IN THE SENATE, WHERE
DEMOCRATS HAVE THE MAJORITY.
HOUSE REPUBLICANS PUSHED THROUGH
ANOTHER BILL LAST NIGHT TO SPEED
APPROVAL OF THE KEYSTONE OIL
PIPELINE, BYPASSING PRESIDENT
OBAMA.
IT APPLIES TO A STRETCH OF
PIPELINE FROM CANADA TO
NEBRASKA.THE
APPROVAL OF THAT SECTION, BUT HE
DID OKAY WORK ON THE SOUTHERN
PORTION OF THE PIPELINE
EXTENDING TO TEXAS.
THAT BILL, TOO, IS EXPECTED TO
DIE IN THE SENATE.
THE BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA WILL
ALLOW OPENLY GAY SCOUTS TO JOIN
THE ORGANIZATION.
IT FOLLOWED A CLOSE VOTE BY THE
BOY SCOUTS NATIONAL COUNCIL IN
TEXAS.
THE DECISION CAME AFTER THE
NATIONAL EXECUTIVE BOARD
DEFERRED IN FEBRUARY.
THE ANGECH IS EFFECTIVE IN
JANUARY.
A BAN ON GAY ADULT LEADERS
REMAINS IN PLACE.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST 12
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 15,294.
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY FOUR
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 3,459.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: BRITISH
INVESTIGATORS ARE PIECING
TOGETHER THE BRUTAL MURDER OF A
SOLDIER YESTERDAY.
THE DAYTIME ATTACK TOOK PLACE IN
THE WOOLWICH AREA OF SOUTH
LONDON.
25-YEAR-OLD LEE RIGBY WAS HACKED
TO DEATH BY TWO MEN ARMED WITH
KNIVES.
THE ATTACKERS STAYED AT THE
SCENE, ONE EVEN SPEAKING TO A
BYSTANDER FILMING THE AFTERMATH.
A WARNING: THE IMAGES ARE
GRAPHIC.
THE VIDEO SHOWS THE MAN HOLDING
TWO KNIVES, HIS HANDS COVERED IN
BLOOD.
AFTER THAT, POLICE ARRIVED AND
SHOT THE MEN WHO WERE TAKEN TO A
HOSPITAL.
WE BEGIN WITH A REPORT FROM
LUCY MANNING OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS."
>> Reporter: TO THOSE LEAVING
FLOWERS AT THE BARRACKS, HE WAS
THE UNKNOWN SOLDIER.
BUT DRUMMER LEE RIGBY OF THE
SECOND BATTALION OF THE ROYAL
RIDGEIMENT IS THE SOLDI WHOERSE
DEATH HAS SHOCKED THE COUNTRY.
THE 25-YEAR-OLD FROM MANCHESTER,
KNOWN AS "RIGGERS" WITTY,
CHEEKY, HUMOROUS AND A LOVING
FATHER TO HIS SON, JACK, JUST
TWO YEARS OLD.
A BRITISH SOLDIER KILLED NOT IN
WAR BUT AT HOME.
>> THIS WAS A SENSELESS MURDER
OF A SOLDIER WHO SERVED THE ARMY
FAITHFULLY IN A VARIETY OF
ROLES, INCLUDING OPERATIONAL
NIEWRS AFGHANISTAN AND OUR
THOUGHTS TODAY ARE WITH HIS
FAMILY AND LOVED ONES WHO ARE
TRYING TO COME TO TERMS WITH
THIS TERRIBLE LOSS.
>> Reporter: WE ALSO LEARNED
THE NAME OF ONE OF THE MEN
SUSPECTED OF KILLING HIM.
MICHAEL ADEBOLAJO, BORN IN
BRITAIN WITH A NIGERIAN
BACKGROUND, HE STUDIED AT
GREENWICH UNIVERSITY, THE
28-YEAR-OLD A CONVERT TO ISLAM.
>> WE MUST FIGHT THEM AS THEY
FIGHT US.
AN EYE FOR AN EYE, A TOOTH FAIR
TOOTH.
>> Reporter: SOURCES CONFIRM
BOTH SUSPECTS WERE ALREADY KNOWN
TO THE SECURITY SERVICES.
ALTHOUGH SOURCE SAYS BOTH THE
SUSPECTS' NAMES DEFEATURE IN
SECURITY SERVICE INVESTIGATIONS,
THEY SAY THERE WAS NO ASSESSMENT
THEY WERE PLANNING AN ATTACK,
AND MANY NAMES DO COME BEFORE
THE SECURITY SERVICES IN THEIR
.NVESTIGATIONS
THERE WILL BE QUESTIONS FOR THE
POLICE AND SECURITY SERVICES.
ONE SUSPECT, SOURCES SAY, WAS
STOPPED LAST YEAR TRYING TO GO
TO SOMALIA.
BUT FOR NOW, THIS IS ALL ABOUT
THE INVESTIGATION INTO DRUMMER
RIGBY'S DEATH.
SO THE POLICE SEARCHED HOUSES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY LINKED TO THE
SUSPECTS.
A FLAT IN GREENWICH WHERE HE'D
STUDIED, IN LINCOLN BELIEVED TO
BE THE HOME OF MICHAEL
ADEBOLAJO'S FATHER, THE POLICE
ARRIVED.
HIS PARENTS ARE SAID TO BE
DEVOUT CHRISTIANS.
AND IN RUMFORD, WHERE HE GREW UP
AND WENT TO SCHOOL.
AT THE WOOLWITCH BARRACKS, THE
FLAG AT HALF-MAST, THE PRIME
MINISTER ARRIVED TO MEET THE
SOLDIERS WHO SAID DRUMMER RIGBY
WAS AT THE HEART OF THE PLATOON,
ALWAYS WITH A SMILE ON HIS FACE.
EARLIER AT DOWNING STREET, A
RESOLUTE PRIME MINISTER INSISTED
WE WILL NEVER GIVE IN TO TERROR.
>> ON OUR TELEVISIONS LAST
NIGHT, AND IN OUR NEWSPAPERS
THIS MORNING, WE HAVE ALL SEEN
IMAGES THAT ARE DEEPLY SHOCKING.
THE PEOPLE WHO DID THIS WERE
TRYING TO DIVIDE US.
THEY SHOULD KNOW SOMETHING LIKE
THIS WILL ONLY BRING US TOGETHER
AND MAKE US SRONGTER.
>> Reporter: LEIGH RIGBY WAS A
DRUMMER, A MAN WHO ENTERTAINED
WITH MUSIC, A TRUE WARRIOR WHO
CAME HOME FROM AFGHANISTAN BUT
MET HIS DEATH ON THE STREETS OF
THE COUNTRY THAT HE SERVED.
>> Woodruff: PRIME MINISTER
CAMERON SINGLED OUT A BYSTANDER
48-YEAR-OLD INGRID LOYAU-
KENNETT FOR HER BRAVERY.
THE FRENCH-BORN FORMER TEACHER
CAME FACE-TO-FACE WITH ONE OF
THE SUSPECTS JUST MOMENTS AFTER
YESTERDAY'S ATTACK.
SHE TOLD I.T.N.'S MARY
NIGHTINGALE HE HAD A REVOLVER
AND KNIVES.
>> I LOOKED AT HIM AND SAW HE
HAD A REVOLVER AND A BUTCHER'S
KNIFE AND A BUTCHER'S HATCHET?
SOMETHING WHEN YOU CUT THE
BONES.
SO I SAID OKAY, WHAT HAPPENED?
>> YOU WERE SPEAKING DIRECTLY TO
HIM?
>> OH YEAH.
I SAID OKAY, WHAT HAPPENED.
HE SAID HE'S A BRITISH SOLDIER.
HE KILLED PEOPLE IN MUSLIM
LANDS.
>> I CAN IMAGINE THAT SOME
PEOPLE WOULD HAVE THOUGHT IT WAS
MORE SENSIBLE TO KEEP BACK?
>> WHAT FOR?
TO HAVE THEM BEING UPSET AND
RUSHING SOMEBODY?
YOU KNOW MY THING IS THE BETTER
DEFENSE IS THE ATTACK.
SO IF YOU WANT TO KEEP THINGS
CALM, GO FIRST.
DO THINGS YOURSELF, FIRST.
DON'T WAIT FOR SOMETHING TO
HAPPEN BECAUSE YOU LOSE CONTROL
AT THAT MOMENT.
>> Brown: THE PEOPLE OF MOORE,
OKLAHOMA BEGAN SAYING FAREWELL
TODAY TO THE VICTIMS OF MONDAY'S
TORNADO DISASTER.
AT THE SAME TIME, CLEANUP CREWS
DODGED MORE BAD WEATHER.
HARI IS BACK WITH OUR REPORT ON
DAY THREE SINCE THE TWISTER HIT.
>> Sreenivasan: HUNDREDS OF
PEOPLE TURNED OUT FOR THE FIRST
OF 24 FUNERALS.
THIS ONE, FOR NINE-YEAR-OLD
ANTONIA CANDELARIA.
SHE WAS ONE OF SEVEN CHILDREN
KILLED AT THE PLAZA TOWERS
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
SIX OF THOSE CHILDREN SUFFOCATED
AFTER BEING BURIED UNDER BRICKS
AND STEEL.
ANOTHER WAS HIT AND KILLED BY A
HEAVY STONE OR BEAM.
TODAY, ON WHAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
THE LAST DAY OF SCHOOL,
STUDENTS GATHERED AT MOORE HIGH
SCHOOL HOPING TO FIND A SENSE OF
CLOSURE.
>> WE THINK IT'S IMPORTANT FOR
THE KIDS TO BE ABLE TO SEE THEIR
CLASSMATES, TO SEE WHO'S DOING
ALL RIGHT, TO BE ABLE TO TALK TO
THEIR FRIENDS AGAIN AND BE WITH
THEIR TEACHERS.
IT WAS QUITE AN EXPERIENCE ON
MONDAY AFTERNOON, AND ONCE THE
TORNADO WAS OVER THEY WENT HOME.
SO THIS IS THE FIRST OPPORTUNITY
TO COME BACK TO THE SCHOOL.
>> Sreenivasan: THOUSANDS OF
OTHERS ARE ALSO TRYING TO COME
TO GRIPS WITH THE AFTERMATH OF A
TORNADO THAT TOPPED THE SCALE,
AS AN F-5 AND DAMAGED OR
DESTROYED UP TO 13,000 HOMES.
OKLAHOMA GOVERNOR MARY FALLIN
SAYS THE ENORMITY OF THE LOSS
HAS TURNED DAY-TO-DAY LIFE INTO
A STRUGGLE.
>> I'VE HAD PEOPLE COME UP AND
SAY I'VE LOST MY PURSE, I'VE
LOST MY BILLFOLD, I DON'T HAVE
IDENTIFICATION.
WE'VE BEEN WORKING WITH OUR
HEALTH DEPT FOR THOSE THAT HAVE
LOST THEIR BIRTH CERTIFICATES.
THOSE THAT NEED DEATH
CERTIFICATES.
THERE ARE MANY DIFFERENT ISSUES
FACING PEOPLE.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
HARDEST HIT AREAS IS THE
DISTRICT OF STATE REPRESENTATIVE
MARK McBRIDE.
80% OF HIS CONSTITUENTS WERE IN
THE PATH OF THE TORNADO, AS HE
HEARD WEDNESDAY.
>> HEY MAN, YOU LIVE HERE?
>> NO, GUY I WORKED WITH DID.
>> OH YEAH?
>> HIS GIRLFRIEND RODE IT OUT IN
THERE.
>> RODE IT OUT IN THAT?
>> YEP, SHE CRAWLED OUT WHERE
THAT GUY'S CARRYING THAT COAT.
SHE CRAWLED OUT OF THERE.
>> REALLY?
>> REALLY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PLAZA TOWERS
SCHOOL IS ALSO IN McBRIDE'S
DISTRICT.
ON MONDAY, HE HELPED DIG THROUGH
THE WRECKAGE IN SEARCH OF
CHILDREN.
>> WE GOT IN HERE AS QUICK AS WE
COULD, I MEAN WE WERE IN HERE
FIREFIGHTERS, EVERYONE HAD JACK
HAMMERS GOING AND CUTTING
TORCHES AND LOADERS AND JUST TRY
AND TAKE BITS AND PIECES AWAY AT
A TIME.
>> Sreenivasan: DANNY SILVA'S
LITTLE GIRL ATTENDS SECOND GRADE
AT PLAZA TOWERS.
HE GOT HER OUT OF SCHOOL, BEFORE
THE STORM HIT, AND INTO A
NEIGHBOR'S SHELTER.
>> I SAID, LET'S GO LET'S GO, WE
WERE PUSHING, PUSHING IN.
NINE KIDS AND FIVE ADULTS, WE
HAD A PROBLEM SHUTTING THE HATCH
AND ONCE WE CLOSED IT AND LOCKED
IT UP IT TOOK ABOUT 30 SECONDS
AND IT WAS LIKE THE SPACE
SHUTTLE WAS ABOVE US.
>> Sreenivasan: THEY ALL
SURVIVED, BUT SILVA SAID HE KNEW
ALL SEVEN OF THE CHILDREN WHO
DIED AT THE SCHOOL.
>> IT'S HEARTBREAKING.
I SAW THE NAMES TODAY.
IT'S HORRIBLE BECAUSE I KNOW
THOSE KIDS, AND ONE OF THEM IS
MY DAUGHTER'S BEST FRIEND.
IT'S HORRIBLE.
>> Sreenivasan: NEITHER SILVA
NOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE MCBRIDE
SAY THEY BELIEVE A STORM SHELTER
AT THE SCHOOL WOULD HAVE MADE A
DIFFERENCE.
>> I DON'T THINK ANYONE COULD
HAVE PREVENTED THIS.
I REALLY DON'T, UNLESS YOU PUT
THE SCHOOL UNDERGROUND, HA.
THERE'S REALLY NOTHING.
THEY DID EVERYTHING THEY COULD.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW THERE IS
NOTHING YOU CAN DO ABOUT AN F-5
TORNADO.
I MEAN IT IS THE BIG DADDY, I
MEAN IT CAME IN HERE, I DON'T
KNOW IF A STORM SHELTER OR
ANYTHING WOULD HAVE STOPPED IT,
I MEAN IT WAS COMING THROUGH AND
TEARING ANYTHING IN IT'S PATH.
NOT A NORMAL F2, F3 SOMETHING
THAT WE NORMALLY GET.
IT WAS I MEAN YOU CAN JUST LOOK
AROUND AND SEE, IT WIPED
EVERYTHING OFF THE FOUNDATION.
>> Sreenivasan: DESPITE THE
DESTRUCTION, SUSAN PIERCE, THE
LOCAL SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS
PROMISED TODAY THAT THE SYSTEM
WILL WORK ALL SUMMER TO BE READY
FOR THE NEW SCHOOL YEAR.
>> WE WILL REBUILD AND WE WILL
REOPEN.
AND WE WILL HAVE SCHOOL IN
AUGUST.
WE WILL DO WHATEVER IT TAKES TO
TAKE CARE OF OUR STUDENTS, THEIR
FAMILIES AND OUR SCHOOL STAFF.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR NOW, CLEANUP
CREWS ARE STILL COPING WITH BAD
WEATHER-- A NEW BAND OF
THUNDERSTORMS THAT DROPPED MORE
RAIN TODAY, RENEWING FEARS OF
ANOTHER TWISTER.HE WEATHER,
GOVERNOR FALLIN SAYS WORKERS ARE
ATTACKING THE MOUNTAINS OF
DEBRIS THAT EXTEND AS FAR AS THE
EYE CAN SEE.
>> OUR MAIN TASK NOW IS TO WORK
ON RECOVER FOR THE VARIOUS
COMMUNITIES, THE DEBRIS REMOVAL
ITSELF, TO GET UTILITIES BACK UP
AND OPERATIONAL STREETS OPENED,
BUSINESSES OPENED TO HELP THE
FAMILIES CERTAINLY GET INTO
THEIR COMMUNITIES TO BE ABLE TO
RETRIEVE THEIR PERSONAL ITEMS
AND GOODS.
WE HAVE PROFESSIONAL DEBRIS
REMOVAL CREWS THAT ARE STATIONED
AND THERE ARE ALSO A LOT OF
VOLUNTEER ORGANIZATIONS THAT
HAVE COME FORWARD SAYING WHAT
CAN WE DO TO HELP.
>> Sreenivasan: HUNDREDS OF
VOLUNTEERS HAVE ALREADY CLEANED
THE CEMETERY IN MOORE, FOR
MEMORIAL DAY.
THE WEEKEND WILL ALSO BRING MORE
FUNERALS FOR THE TORNADO'S
VICTIMS, PRESIDENT OBAMA'S VISIT
ON SUNDAY AND AOMMU CNITY PRAYER
SERVICE ON SUNDAY NIGHT.
>> Brown: AND THERE'S MUCH MORE
ONLINE, WHERE ONE OF OUR
REPORTERS ON THE GROUND HAS
WRITTEN OF HER EXPERIENCE AND
POSTED PHOTOS SHE SHOT OF THE
DESTRUCTION.
>> Woodruff: ON CAPITOL HILL
TODAY, SENATE MAJORITY LEADER
HARRY REID ANNOUNCED A
COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION
PROPOSAL WILL BE DEBATED IN
JUNE.
AND HOUSE REPUBLICANS SAID THEY
WON'T VOTE ON THE SENATE
VERSION, BUT WILL PULL TOGETHER
THEIR OWN LEGISLATION INSTEAD.
WE CONTINUE OUR CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT THE ISSUE IN OUR SERIES,
"INSIDE IMMIGRATION REFORM."
RAY SUAREZ HAS THAT.
>> Suarez: TONIGHT'S FOCUS: THE
NUMBER OF HIGHLY SKILLED FOREIGN
WORKERS ALLOWED TO ENTER THE
U.S.
WE EXAMINE HOW THE VISA PROGRAM
KNOWN AS H-1B IS STRUCTURED NOW
AND THE PROPOSED CHANGES
WITH VIVEK WADHWA, A FELLOW AT
STANFORD LAW SCHOOL AND AUTHOR
OF THE BOOK: "THE IMMIGRANT
EXODUS: WHY AMERICA IS LOSING
THE GLOBAL RACE TO CAPTURE
ENTREPRENEURIAL TALENT."
AND RON HIRA, ASSOCIATE
PROFESSOR OF PUBLIC POLICY AT
ROCHESTER INSTITUTE OF
TECHNOLOGY.
PROFESSOR HIRA, THE UNITED
STATES ADMITS ABOUT A MILLION
IMMIGRANTS A YEAR.
IS IT A RELATIVELY SMALL SHARE
OF THAT MILLION THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT WITH THE H-1B
VISAS?
>> WELL, ACTUALLY, WE ADMIT
ABOUT 1 MILLION PERMANENT
RESIDENTS EACH YEAR, AND ABOUT
140,000 OR SO ARE HIGH-SKILLED
PERMANENT RESIDENTS, THAT'S
GREEN CARDS.
THE H-1B IS ACTUALLY A GUEST
WORKER PROGRAM, AND IN THERE, IN
THE GUEST WORKER PROGRAM WE
ADMIT ABOUT 115,000 A YEAR.
THERE'S A CAP OF 85,000.
I THINK THERE ARE ACTUALLY TWO
SEPARATE NUMBERS AND SEPARATE
PROGRAMS.
ONE IS A GUEST WORKER PROGRAM,
ONE IS A GREEN CARD PROGRAM.
>> Suarez: VIVEK WADHWA, WHY
DO COMPANIES NEED THESE WORKERS?
AREN'T AMERICANS PREPARED TO DO
THESE JOBS IN SUFFICIENT
NUMBERS?
>> COMPANIES NEED THESE SKILLS
THAT THESE FOREIGN WORKERS
PROVIDE.
RIGHT NOW, TECHNOLOGY IS DRIVING
OUR ECONOMY.
WE'RE SOLVING MAJOR PROBLEMS
USING TECHNOLOGY.
WE'RE ADVANCING U.S.
COMPETITIVENESS USING
TECHNOLOGY.
THE TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY NEEDS
ALL THE BRIGHT PEOPLE IT CAN GET
TO HELP IT BUILD THESE NEW
TECHNOLOGIES AND IMPROVE OUR
ECONOMY.
>> Suarez: IS THERE ANY BURDEN
ON THE COMPANIES, VIVEK WADHWA,
TO DEMONSTRATE THEY FIRST TRIED
TO LOCATE AMERICANS TO DO THESE
JOBS?
>> THE ANTI-IMMIGRANT GROUPS AND
PEOPLE LIKE PROFESSOR HIRA HAVE
BEEN HARANGUING COMPANIES FOR
HIRING FOREIGN WORKERS AS IF
HIRING FOREIGN WORKERS IS EVIL
SO THEY'RE ON THE DEFENSIVE.
THE NEW BILLS RAISE BARRIERS.
THEY REQUIRE A LOT OF EXTRA
DOCUMENTATION.
THEY HAVE TO PROVE THEY'RE NOT
TAKING THE JOBS OF AMERICAN
WORKERS AWAY, AND IT'S LEADING
TO NEGATIVITY ABOUT HIRING
FOREIGNERS.
AGAIN, AMERICAN COMPANIES ARE
TRYING TO COMPETE.
THEY'RE TRYING TO MAKE AMERICA A
BETTER PLACE.
THEY'RE TRYING TO CREATE MORE
JOBS FOR AMERICANS.
AND WE'RE HOLDING THEM BACK
BECAUSE OF OUR FLAWED
IMMIGRATION POLICIES.
>> Suarez: RON HIRA, HOW DO
YOU RESPOND TO THAT ACCUSATION
FROM VIVEK WADHWA?
>> WELL, I THINK THE FACTS ARE
PRETTY CLEAR THAT IN FACT
AMERICANS-- THESE COMPANIES
DON'T HAVE TO LOOK FOR AMERICANS
WORKERS FIRST.
IN THE BILL, THE WAIT OF WAY
IT'S WRITTEN RIGHT NOW, THEY
WOULD HAVE TO COLLECT RESUMES,
BUT THEY DON'T ACTUALLY HAVE TO
HIRE AMERICANS, AND THEY COULD
DISPLACE AMERICANS.
SO THEY CAN, CLEARLY, BYPASS
AMERICAN WORKERS, AND THERE'S AN
INCENTIVE FOR THEM TO DO SO.
EVEN THOUGH THE BILL DOES RAISE
THE WAGE FLOORS FOR H-1Bs A
LITTLE BIT, THEY'RE STILL BELOW
MARKET WAGES.
THEY'RE STILL CHEAPER.
SO THERE'S A REAL INCENTIVE TO
BRING IN THESE GUEST WORKERS
BECAUSE THEY CAN BE PAID BELOW
MARKET WAGES, LESS THAN AMERICAN
WORKERS.
PLUS THEY'RE TIED TO THE
EMPLOYER.
THE EMPLOYER CONTROLS THE VISA
PROGRAM.
>> Suarez: SO LOOKING BACK
OVER THE HISTORY OF THIS
PROGRAM, PROFESSOR, WHAT EFFECT
HAVE THOSE H-1B WORKERS HAD ON
THE TECH JOB MARKET IN THE
UNITED STATES, IN YOUR VIEW?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S HAD A
SIGNIFICANTLY NEGATIVE EFFECT
OVERALL.
I THINK THERE ARE SOME REALLY
HIGHLY TALENTED WORKERS WHO COME
IN ON H-1Bs.
THAT'S A REALLY GOOD PARENT OF
IT.
AND MANY OF THE COMPANIES DO
SPONSOR THEM FOR PERMANENT
RESIDENTS.
BUT THERE'S AN INCREASING SHARE
OF EMPLOYERS WHO ARE REALLY
USING IT FOR CHEAPER LABOR.
WHAT THAT DOES IS IT HAS A
NEGATIVE EFFECT IN TERMS OF
UNDERCUTTING AMERICAN WAGES AND
JOB OPPORTUNITIES FOR INCUMBENT
WORKERS.
IT ALSO DISCOURAGES AMERICAN
STUDENTS FROM STUDYING THESE
FIELDS.
THE TYPICAL H-1B WORKER WHO
REALLY HAS ORDINARY SKILLS IS
WORKING IN A BACK OFFICE AREA IN
ID, AND AND OFTENTIMES THEY'RE
TAKING JOBS AMERICANS ARE
ALREADY DOING, SO THEY'RE
ACTUALLY DISPLACING AMERICAN
WORKERS IN MANY CASES.
>> Suarez: VIVEK WADHWA, IS
THAT NOT THE CASE?
AREN'T AMERICAN WORKER WORKERS O
THESE KINDS OF JOBS
DISADVANTAGED BY ENTRY FROM
PEOPLE IN THE PLACES IN THE
WORLD WHERE THAT KIND OF WORK
JUST COSTS LESS?
>> RAY, I LIVE IN SILICON
VALLEY.
IF YOU TALK TO ANY EXECUTIVE IN
SILICON VALLEY, TALK TO ANY
COMPANY, THEY CAN'T FIND ENOUGH
WORKERS TO HELP THEM BUILD
COMPETITIVE TECHNOLOGIES.
THERE IS A DIRE SHORTAGE OF
SKILLS OVER HERE.
YES, THERE ARE SOME UNEMPLOYED
WORKERS IN PARTS OF AMERICA WHO
HAVE THE WRONG SKILLS.
SADLY, THAT'S A BIG PROBLEM, AND
THESE ARE THE PEOPLE WHO
PROFESSOR HIRA IS TALKING ABOUT.
BUT IN THE TECH WORLD, WE NEED
MORE INNOVATORS.
WE NEED MORE ENTREPRENEURS.
WE NEED MORE PEOPLE WHO CAN
SOLVE GLOBAL PROBLEMS AND
COMPANIES ARE DESPERATELY
LOOKING FOR THEM.
ARE THEY CHEAPER-- IS IT CHEAPER
TO BRING IN FOREIGN LABOR?
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THAT.
LOOK AT FACEBOOK, GOOGLE, THESE
COMPANIES DON'T CARE ABOUT THE
COST OF LABOR.
THEY CARE ABOUT THE QUALITY OF
LABOR.
THEY'RE LOOK FOR PEOPLE WHO CAN
BUILD TECHNOLS AND HELP THEM
BECOME COMPETITIVE.
SO WHAT YOU HEAR ON THAT SIDE
AND WHAT YOU HEAR IN SILICON
VALLEY IS COMPLETELY DIFFERENT.
IT'S LIKE A DIFFERENT UNIVEERS
TALKING TO US HERE IN THE
VALLEY.
WE'RE STARVED FOR TALENT HERE.
THAT'S AS SIMPLE AS IT IS.
>> Suarez: SO VIVEK WADHWA,
YOU HAVE BEEN ADVOCATING FOR A
DIFFERENT REGIME HERE.
DOES THE SENATE PROPOSAL ADDRESS
SOME OF YOUR MISGIVINGS ABOUT
H-1B AS IT EXISTED?
>> IT'S A HIGHLY IMPERFECT BILL
BUT IT'S BETTER THAN NOTHING AND
I SUPPORT IT.
SO THE ANSWER IS YES, IT DOES.
IT DOES CREATE MORE VISAS.
IT DOES ALLOW THE BRILLIANT
STUDENTS THAT COME HERE TO STUDY
TO SAY.
IT DOES GO A LONG WAY IN FIXING
THE PROBLEM, AND WE NEED IT
BADLY.
>> Suarez: RON HIRA, THE SAME
QUESTION, DOES THE NEW SENATE
PROPOSAL ADDRESS SOME OF THE
MISGIVINGS YOU'VE HAD ABOUT H-1B
OVER THE YEARS?
>> IT DID MORE UNTIL THE FINAL
PART OF THE MARK-UP WHERE
SENATOR HATCH EXPRAELT
TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY REALLY USED
ITS POLITICAL MUSCLE AND
CAMPAIGN MONEY TO REALLY CHANGE
THE BILL SIGNIFICANTLY.
I THINK THERE ARE SOME SAVED
GUARDS IN THE BILL, BUT THERE'S
A REALLY LARGE INCREASE OF
H-1Bs, AND I THINK THE REALITY
IS IT DOESN'T FIX THE
FUNDAMENTAL FLAWS WHICH IS H-1B
GUEST WORKERS CAN BE PAID
BELOW-MARKET WAGES SO THE WAGE
FLOORS ARE STILL TOO LOW.
AND THAT COMPANIES CAN BYPASS
AMERICAN WORKERS AND EVEN
DISPLACE AMERICAN WORKERS WITH
GUEST WORKERS.
>> Suarez: QUICKLY, WHAT WOULD
DO YOU TO CHANGE IT?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE ARE TWO
REALLY PRETTY EASY FIXES,
STRAIGHTFORWARD FIXES.
ONE SURAISE THE WAGE FLOOR TO AT
LEAST THE AVERAGE WAGE.
THESE ARE THE BEST AND
BRIGHTEST, AS MR. WADHWA CALLS
THEM.
THEY SHOULD AT LEAST BE PAID
AVERAGE AMERICAN WAGE WAGES.
YOU RAISE THE WAGE FLOOR TO THAT
AVERAGE LEVEL, AND THE SECOND
THING DO YOU IS REQUIRE THEM TO
ACTUALLY RECRUIT, AND IF THEY
FIND QUALIFIED AMERICAN
WORKSERS, THEY ACTUALLY HIRE
AMERICAN WORKERS PURPOSE AND
SECONDLY, YOU DON'T DISPLACE
AMERICAN WORKERS.
LOOK FOR AMERICAN WORKERS FIRST,
GIVE THEM A LEGITIMATE SHOT, AND
THEN TURN TO THE H-1B GUEST
WORKERS.
>> Suarez: AND FINAL SUGGESTED
FIX FROM VIVEK WADHWA?
>> THESE ARE NOT LIKE McDONALD
WORKERS WHERE ONE IS EQUAL TO
ANOTHER.
THE PERSON WHO CAN BUILD AN
IPHONE OR WORLD-CHANGING APP IS
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT THAN THE
PEOPLE RON IS DESCRIBING.
I DON'T KNOW WHY HE SAYS AVERAGE
PEOPLE-- I WAS ONE OF THE PEOPLE
WHO CAME HERE ON A TEMPORARY
VISA AND IENTED UP CREATING ONE
COMPANY THAT HIRED 1,000 WORKERS
AND MADE AMERICA MORE
COMPETITIVE, ANOTHER THAT HIRED
250.
THESE PEOPLE ARE LIKE ME.
THEY COME HERE TO WORK HARD AND
INNOVATE AND MAKE THIS COUNTRY
WHAT IT IS.
I DON'T KNOW WHY HE HARANGUE OUR
COMPANIES.
OUR COMPANIES REPORT EVIL.
OUR SENATORS AREN'T EVIL.
THEY'RE TRYING TO SURVIVE IN THE
GLOBAL COMPETITIVE LANDED SCAPE
AND CREATE MORE JOBS FOR
AMERICANS.
WE HAVE TO GET BEYOND THIS
NEGATIVITY.
WE HAVE TO MAKE THE PIE BIGGER
FOR EVERYONE AND CREATE MORE
JOBS AND FIX THIS ECONOMY.
THAT'S WHAT THE TECHNOLOGY
COMPANIES IN SILICON VALLEY ARE
DOING.
>> Suarez: GENTLEMEN, WE'LL
CONTINUE THIS DEBATE.
HUFF, RON HIRA, THANK YOU
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT, AN
UPDATE ON THE MOUNTING PROBLEM
OF SEXUAL ASSAULTS IN THE
MILITARY.
A RECENT PENTAGON SURVEY
ESTIMATED 26,000 SERVICE MEMBERS
WERE VICTIMS OF SEXUAL CRIMES
LAST YEAR.
ONLY 3,400 OF THOSE ASSAULTS
WERE ACTUALLY REPORTED TO
AUTHORITIES.
THE LATEST CASE CAME YESTERDAY.
AN ARMY SERGEANT AT THE U.S.
MILITARY ACADEMY AT WEST POINT
TAPING FEMALE CADETS IN THE
BATHROOMS AND SHOWERS.
NO ONE DISPUTES THE GRAVITY OF
THE PROBLEM-- THE MILITARY'S TOP
OFFICIAL, GENERAL MARTIN
DEMPSEY, CALLED IT A CRISIS.
BUT THERE ARE ARGUMENTS ON WHAT
TO DO: KWAME HOLMAN REPORTS ON
EFFORTS TO PROSECUTE THE CRIMES
AND KEEP THE ASSAULTS FROM
HAPPENING IN THE FIRST PLACE.
>> Reporter: AT A NAVAL BASE IN
WASHINGTON, THE EMPHASIS IS ON
PREVENTION.
SENIOR OFFICERS PARTICIPATE IN A
TRAINING PROGRAM.
THE 90-MINUTE CLASS IS CALLED
"TAKE THE HELM."
THE TEACHERS-- SOME  THOFE
NAVY'S MOST EXPERIENCED
INSTRUCTORS AND LAWYERS--  SHOW
A MOVIE DEPICTING OFF-DUTY
SAILORS.
IN ONE SCENE, THEY'RE DRINKING
AND PARTYING CAROUSING THAT
COULD END WITH A SEXUAL ASSAULT.
>> NOT IN MY ROOM
>> Reporter: IN ANOTHER, SAILORS
ON BOARD SHIP ENGAGE IN SEXUALLY
SUGGESTIVE BEHAVIOR.
THE OFFICERS ARE GIVEN POINTERS
ON HOW TO RECOGNIZE POTENTIALLY
DANGEROUS SITUATIONS AND HOW TO
INTERVENE TO STOP THEM.
>> THINK BACK TO THE HOTEL
PARTY...
WE KNOW ALCOHOL WAS INVOLVED.
HOW DOES CHL PLAY A ROLE IN
SEXUAL ASSAULT? OUR JUDGMENT.
>> OKAY.
>> ILORSBAANS IS A NAVY LAWYER.
ARE ECIALLY THOSE CONTACT CRIMES
WHERE THEY ULD NOT HAVE
CONSIDERED THAT SEXUAL ASSAULT,
A LONG TIME AGO.
SO I THINK WE SEE THIS INCREASE.
>> Reporter: GRABBING, TOUCHING
IN...
>> GRABBING TOUCHING IN THE
TNGUIT AR.
>> Reporter: ANOTHER PART OF THE
NAVY'S EFFORT INVOLVES
INTERVENING WITH SAILS OORFF
DUTY.
IN ONE SMALL SCALE EXPERIMENT,
SENIOR NON-COMMISSIONED OFFICERS
ON SHORE PATROL IN SAN DIEGO
LOOK OUT FOR DRINKING THAT MIGHT
GET OUT OF HAND.
THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT ESTIMATES
HALF OF FEMALE SERVICEMEMBERS
WHO WERE ASSAULTED SAID THEY OR
THEIR ASSAILANT HAD BEEN
DRINKING.
BUT IS BETTER TRAINING UP AND
DOWN THE RANKS AND AWARENESS OF
THE PROBLEM OF SEXUAL ASSAULT
ENOUGH TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM.
MANY OUTSIDE THE MILITARY SAY
NO.
>> Reporter: A BIPARTISAN GROUP
OF SENATORS WANTS ANOTHER
RESPONSE.
NEW YORK DEMOCRAT KIRSTEN
GILLIBRAND SAYS IT'S TIME TO
CHANGE HOW MILITARY JUSTICE IS
ADMINISTERED.
MEN AND WOMEN IN THE MILITARY
OPERATE IN CLOSE PROXIMITY AND
UNDER THE STRICT CONTROL OF
THEIR COMMANDERS.
CURRENTLY, THOSE COMMANDERS HAVE
SOLE AUTHORITY TO DECIDE WHETHER
A SEXUAL ASSAULT CASE IS
PROSECUTED AND THE POWER TO
REVERSE A CONVICTION AFTERWARD.
BUT COMMANDERS CAN BE SHOW
FAVORITISM AND BIAS WHEN
HANDLING SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THEIR
RANKS, SAYS GILLIBRAND.
HER PROPOSAL WOULD REMOVE
COMMANDERS FROM THE JUDICIAL
PROCESS ANYTIME A SUBORDINATE IS
CHARGED WITH ANY SERIOUS CRIME.
INSTEAD THE DECISION WHETHER TO
PROSECUTE WOULD BE MADE BY
PROFESSIONAL INVESTIGATORS AND
LAWYERS.
>> TODAY, WE ARE STANDING STRONG
AND UNITED TO TAKE THIS ISSUE
HEAD ON, WITH NEW LEGISLATION
THAT REMOVES DECISION-MAKING
FROM THE CHAIN OF COMMAND AND
GIVES THAT DISCRETION TO
EXPERIENCED TRIAL COUNSEL WITH
PROSECUTORIAL EXPERIENCE, WHERE
IT BELONGS.
THIS IS THE ONLY WAY WE CAN
PROVIDE UNBIASED JUSTICE THAT
OUR VICTIMS NEED.
>> Reporter: FORMER AIRMAN FIRST
CLASS JESSICA HINVES WAS AN F-15
MECHANIC.
SHE RECENTLY WAS PROFILED IN THE
OSCAR-NOMINATED DOCUMENTARY "THE
INVISIBLE WAR."
SHE SAYS SHE WAS RAPED IN
JANUARY 2009 AT NELLIS AIR FORCE
BASE.
>> HE PINNED ME AGAINST A WALL,
IN FRONT OF EVERYBODY, AND WAS
TELLING ME ALL ESE THSEXUAL
THINGS HE WAS GOING TO DO.
>> I'D MADE IT CLEAR I WASN'T
INTERESTED IN HIM.
THE ADVANCEMENTS WERE NOT
FLATTERING.
THE NEXT NIGHT, I DON'T KNOW
WHAT INDICATION HE HAD TO COME
IN MY ROOM.
SAYS, A HOOKUP CULTURE, THIS WAS
SEXUAL ASSAULT AND RAPE.
I LET HIM KNOW, EVEN BEFORE THE
RAPE, WHEN HE WAS JUST TOUCHING
ME, THAT THAT'S NOT WHAT I
WANTED, I WANTED IT TO STOP, I
DIDN'T WANT HIM IN MY ROOM.
>> Reporter: HINVES CASE WAS
INVESTIGATED BY THE AIR FORCE
FOR MORE THAN A YEAR AND SHE
SAID, DURING THAT TIME, SOME
FELLOW SERVICE MEMBERS BLAMED
HER FOR WHAT HAPPENED.
>> PEOPLE WERE UPSET AT ME THAT
I WAS GETTING HIM IN TROUBLE.
THAT'S WHAT PEOPLE WERE TELLING
ME.
WHY ARE YOU GETTING HIM IN
TROUBLE, WHY ARE YOU DOING THIS?
YOU KNOW THIS IS HIS LIFE, THIS
IS HIS CAREER.
IT'S JUST SEX, JUST GET OVER IT.
YOU KNOW MOVE ON, MOVE ON FROM
THIS.
>> Reporter: HINVES SAYS THE AIR
FORCE INVESTIGATION FOUND ENOUGH
EVIDENCE TO WARRANT A COURT
MARTIAL ON RAPE CHARGES FOR THE
ASSAILANT.
BUT THE COLONEL IN CHARGE OF
HINVES'S UNIT OVERRULED THAT
DECISION.
>> TWO DAYS BEFORE THE COURT
HEARING HIS COMMANDER CALLED ME
AT A CONFERENCE AT THE JEG
THERE WASN'T ASAID HE DIDN'T
REASON TO PROSECUTE.
I WAS SPEECHLESS, I DIDN'T EVEN
KNOW THAT WAS AN OPTION.
LEGAL HAD BEEN SAYING THIS WAS
GOING TO GO THROUGH THE COURT,
WE HAD THE COURT DATE SET FOR
MONTHS, AND TWO DAYS BEFOR
COMMANDER STOPPED IT.
I L FOU OUTHE COMNDER